most people want to find love but the
truth is you think you know what you
want but you're wrong but there's a lot
of great relationship science out there
and this might be the number one thing
that I want people to take away so if
you're Logan you're King is dating
scientist from Harvard she's renowned
for her datadriven approach to help
millions of people find love big things
in my work are the spark the post8 8 and
the three dating Tendencies so let's go
through that the spark is this idea that
we go after initial chemistry the
fireworks the spark often leads to
relationships that burn out the spark
the postdate eight there eight questions
to ask yourself after a date training
your brain to a new way of dating and
finally most people suffer from one of
these three dating Tendencies and that's
what's holding them back from Finding
Love and can you change it yeah so the
first type is people in great
relationships have made a bunch of good
choices and the truth is the person that
ends up making them happy in the long
term is very rarely who they thought
they should be with if you are single
and you don't want to be at some point
you have to realize you are choosing a
set of problems why do I keep falling
for boys or people often confuse pet
peeves the ick for deal breakers like he
has a velcro wallet I can buy you a new
wallet and they say to me like I don't
want to meet on an app it's not romantic
but the number one way that couples are
meeting is online and so because I want
to help so many people find love these
are the top tricks for a great hinge
profile first of all
you're
I think this is fascinating I looked at
the back end of our YouTube channel and
it says that since this channel started
69.9% of you that watch it frequently
haven't yet hit the Subscribe button so
I have a favor to ask you if you've ever
watched this Channel and enjoyed the
content if you're enjoying this episode
right now please could I ask a small
favor please hit the Subscribe button
helps this channel more than I can
explain and I promise if you do that to
return the favor we will make the show
better and better and better and better
and better that's the promise I'm
willing to make you if you hit the
Subscribe button do we have a
[Music]
deal
Logan why does your work matter my work
matters because most people almost
everyone wants to find love and it's
really hard and I meet people and I see
how badly they want it I see how long
they've been trying to get it and
they're getting in their own way and so
I do the work that I do because I want
to help people understand the blind
spots that are holding them back from
Finding Love and I want to help them get
out of their own way develop new
patterns new habits and find love where
are we in times of love as a society
love dating sex all these kinds of
things where are we what's our direction
of travel are we getting better worse
people are really struggling if you
think about the history of dating it's
actually pretty new right so for most of
human history you were had an arranged
marriage from let's say your piece of
land was next to somebody else's piece
of land so your dads wanted to combine
the land so you were married to the
person next door or there was a
Matchmaker who made the arrangement so
modern dating as we know it only started
around 1890 this is very new in the span
of human history and then you have
dating apps which only started in
Earnest around 10 years ago and so the
way that we're dating now is actually
really new and so when people are
struggling with it I understand we were
not designed to date this way or we
don't have tons of experience and so we
were born knowing how to love but we're
not born knowing how to date and so I'm
out there trying to teach people how to
date and who are you so I am a
behavioral scientist turn dating coach I
work with people one-on-one to help them
find love I also work as hing's director
of relationship science so I conduct
research and really try to understand
what's happening with dating people who
are finding success on hinge what are
they doing differently I also teach
dating classes and I wrote this book how
to not die
alone so for anybody that doesn't know
what hinge is because I'm sure there'll
be some people listening that don't know
what hinge is what is hinge hinge is a
dating app and I think it's the best one
what hinge does differently is it truly
is about getting you off the app and on
to great relationships and so before I
started at hinge I actually interviewed
the CEO Justin McLoud for my book and I
was kind of the skeptical person and I
was like all right let's be real of
course you don't want your users to
actually find love because then they
would churn and then you'd have to find
new users and that'd be really expensive
so get real with me of course you want
to keep people on the app and he was
like no the best referral system that we
have is Word of Mouth from people
finding somebody on the app and telling
other people if you go to a wedding
where the people Found Love on hinge
that's going to get you to use it and
since I've been there for almost 4 years
not to sound like a a sponsored ad but
I've never been in a conversation that
was about how do we keep people on the
app we're really it's almost a religion
how do we get people off the app and
onto these states and you hired a dating
coach for yourself right yeah that's
exactly right yeah so I have compassion
for my younger self but at the time it
was just so hard it was like the classic
story of you fall for someone we're
having this amazing time and emotions
are running so high and you fall for
someone and you think oh well if my
feelings about them are so strong their
feelings about me must be so strong and
we had this amazing week at berning man
and then when we came back I was like oh
well of course we'll date now and this
person was just not interested in dating
and when I look back at my younger self
I can see that we were in this anxious
avoidant Loop are you familiar with that
no I'm not okay so you know about
attachment Theory loosely okay so I'll
give you the scoop because I feel like
it's really interesting so attachment
theory is a really great part of
relationship research because it's
something that has a deep background in
research so John bulby was a
psychologist and he did the most
interesting research on this and this
was in the 60s so he basically would
have moms bring their babies into a
laboratory and the moms would place the
baby down and leave the room and see how
the baby reacted and so some babies
would start crying the mom would come
back in the room and pick it up and the
baby would keep crying so the mom was
there again but the baby still felt
upset and that baby is anxiously
attached there was another type of baby
where the mom would leave the baby would
come back and as soon as the mom picked
up the baby the baby was soothed so the
baby was saying I want to be with you
but when you're here I know you're here
for good the Third Kind the mom would
leave the room the baby wouldn't cry
but they knew from other signals that
the baby was upset and when the mom came
back in the room the baby would ignore
it and that baby is
called avoidant attached and so
basically the point is that what we have
in childhood often shows up in adult
romantic relationships and this is
attachment Theory and so anxiously
attached people they feel like they're
always going to lose you you're going to
abandon them you're going to leave them
and so they always try to regain
closeness and so that's why when the mom
came back they're still like are you
going to leave me again I'm so nervous
the avoidant attached babies they feel
like well you'll probably abandon me
anyway so I'm not going to get too close
and those are the people who are always
pushing somebody away here's the reason
why we shouldn't be together they're
always creating reasons to delay
intimacy and they're afraid of being
smothered and then the securely attached
babies who become securely attached
adults they say I want some intimacy but
I also want independence and we sort of
think about them as the heroes of the
relationship world because they can
manage both of those feelings of
closeness and Independence and so what
happens is 50% of the population is
securely attached which would be great
because many of us could date them but
they actually get into relationships and
they stay there so the pool is a lot of
anxious attached people and avoidant
attached people dating each other and
they do the thing called the anxious
avoidant Loop and what that means is my
version of Love is that you're going to
leave me you're going to abandon me and
that I have to chase you your version of
Love is you're going to smother me so I
go after you you pull back and we both
think oh this is what love is we're just
doing love and it's not until one of us
becomes more secure or that we date a
secure partner that we actually realize
that there's another way so so much of
the work I do with people is actually
busting the anxious avoidant Loop and
helping them understand hey you are
anxiously attached when you keep dating
these guys who are running away and you
have to chase them it's hurting you and
you're not in a great relationship look
for someone secure and so that was a
very long-winded way of what happened to
me with this Burning Man guy I was
definitely an anxious attached dator he
was avoidant and instead of us just
saying we're not a match we were in this
Loop and it was so painful I remember
crying on my friend's couch not
understanding why doesn't this person
want to be with me and I I tried my
heart artist I put that Harvard degree
to work right you try to convince
somebody to be with you but they're not
interested and so somebody recommended
this daating coach and I went to meet
with her and it was so helpful because
first of all I acknowledged how painful
it was and then we did an exercise where
she says how do you want somebody to
make you feel and I wrote down all these
characteristics desired respected
admired I want to feel like they think
I'm really funny and when I look looked
at that list I was like this guy doesn't
make me feel like any of those things he
makes me feel like but there's this
other guy at work who actually does make
me feel those things and so there was
this guy at work who I had met
originally in college and then I met him
again at work like in a casual lunch and
I had told him I'm trying to learn this
Statistics language called R and he said
oh I just dropped out of a PhD program
where I write R every day and he was
like I'll tutor you so for a few months
he was tutoring me but I didn't think
that we were a good match he said a
couple things like oh I don't like
travel I don't like people that go to
berning man he seemed close-minded but
then when I worked with this dating
coach and I thought about how I wanted
someone to make me feel I was like that
guy makes me feel that way so I put more
effort into seeing him and we went from
having lunch maybe once a month to once
a week till we suddenly were having
lunch every day and I didn't explicitly
ask him out but I certainly said
oh I don't have plans on Friday what are
you doing kind of inviting him to ask me
out and yeah we've now been together for
almost nine years and we're married I've
got so much to dig into that okay great
I was smirking at you because I just so
much of what you were saying rang true
with me you were perfectly describing me
when you started describing the avoidant
attached can you just characterize that
again because I want to zoom in on that
right yeah let me go more into avoid an
attach M and I would say for anyone
listening who's feeling really stuck
going deep on attachment theory is one
of the number one things that you can do
to really understand yourself understand
your past patterns understand who you've
been attracted to and why it isn't
working and so there's a lot of great
relationship science out there but this
might be the number one thing that I
want people to take away let me describe
what happens when you're avoiding attach
so first there's a trigger so the
trigger might be that you go out with
somebody on Saturday night you have a
great night they sleep over and Sunday
morning morning you wake up and you're
just ready to do your thing but they're
still there so you feel triggered by the
fact that they're still at your house
then you do something called
deactivating strategies so these are
thoughts or feelings that push them away
so it might be like oh my God it's 10
o'clock and she hasn't brushed her teeth
yet when is she going to leave oh uh you
know is she going to be here forever and
then you start thinking about flaws in
that person well this is wrong with her
or that is wrong with her and there's
all these things that are subtly pushing
her away from you and then you do a
protest Behavior which is sort of
snapping or just saying something like
okay I called your Uber and I feel like
many of us have had that situation where
you think you're going you think things
are going well with somebody and then
all of a sudden they're like the ubber
here and you're like oh so you're
kicking me out and it's so interesting
because it's like the other person has
no idea what's going on for you they
feel like you just had a great date and
they're like great let's go out to the
diner for breakfast and instead that
person is like I will never have my life
back you are taking over my world you're
really blessing and so what an avoidant
attached person can do let me give a few
tips for them so one of them is being
really clear about what you want and so
it's absolutely fine if you want the
person to leave but saying something
like hey I had such a great date with
you I have a big week of work ahead of
me and so I want to get started but I
will call you again soon and so just
asking for what you need another thing
is overriding the flaws that are become
so obvious to you so there's a really
interesting thing called the negativity
bias and even though we're living in
this age of chat GPT and all of modern
technology our brains are running on
Ancient software and so our brains have
the negativity bias which is that we're
much more likely to ruminate on what's
wrong with someone the reason for this
is that if you had five ex-girlfriends
and one of them wanted to kill you it
was really important to know which one
that was and so your brain would
remember that and so to overcome the
negativity bias to overcome this feeling
where avoid and attach people focus on
flaws you actually can work on focusing
on the positives so even just saying to
yourself five things that you like about
somebody so you could think in your head
last night was so fun she looked so cute
wearing my t-shirt I'm really excited to
hear her talk more about her work
whatever that is and so actively
overriding this feeling of pushing
people away because that's one of the
really hard Parts about being avoidant
is that you feel like those criticisms
that you have in your head are so valid
well I need to pay attention to this but
what you don't understand is that that's
actually a subconscious way to you to
not for you to not get close to someone
and so I'm coaching someone right now
where she told me oh I went on a date
with a guy everything was great but he
wore a white T-shirt under his shirt
which reminded me of my uncle so I can't
be with him I was like do you understand
how ridiculous that sounds obviously
that's not a reason to not be with
someone that's an excuse for you to not
get close to someone and as we talked
about it more it became obvious that
she's really afraid of being hurt she's
been abandoned by many people she was in
a bad marriage and for her if I don't
get close to you then you can't hurt me
and that's part of the avoidant
attachment if I never rely on you then
you can never let me down and so part of
it is actually getting more com fortable
relying on somebody else and you kind of
alluded to it there but the obvious
question here is where does it come from
you know I think from your answer with
your client with the white T-shirt ick I
think it's quite clear but in my case I
think I I think I know where it comes
from but generally where does this
avoidant attachment style come from yeah
so if you think about the history of
attachment Theory and the fact that it
started doing research with children and
their primary caregiver there is this
idea that it goes back to your childhood
but I feel like it's unfair to really
say all of us have these attachment
Styles because of our parents or
specifically because of our mothers and
hey Mom if I'm single it's your fault
that's actually not true I think that's
part of it but there's other societal
things that can lead to it and there's
some evidence of
different biological reasons why each of
us would do this so the main message
that I want to give away is do not blame
everything on your mother I think
attachment Style is a really good
framework but it's not just an excuse to
say oh well my parents are the reason
why I can't find love and can you change
it the research shows that when people
work on it about 25% of people are able
to change their attachment style and so
what that might look like is somebody
understanding this is my trigger and
when a trigger happens I'm going to do
something else and so we talked about
for the avoidant person asking for what
you need being really clear and not
assuming that somebody is going to read
your mind and looking for the positives
and you can work on self-regulation so
for example when an when an avoidant or
anxious person is triggered they go into
this thing called The Danger Zone which
is basically like I need to get away
from you as soon as possible or I need
to reconnect with you as soon as
possible and if you don't want to get
into the danger zone and you want to
stay in the comfort zone then you can
learn how to self-regulate so that's one
thing the other thing which I personally
feel like is easier and with my strategy
is finding a secure partner
and so that's a great way to get out of
the anxious avoidant Loop so with me
right I was this anxiously attached
dator chasing after this Burning Man guy
had all these bad habits and then when I
started dating my husband I distinctly
remember this moment where I was walking
down the street of San Francisco and I
was flooded I was so angry I would just
get so upset and I was typing away at my
phone I couldn't see anything else I
truly was in this flooded cortisol Rush
moment and I was telling him all the
things he had done wrong and I knew the
pattern which was then he would fight
with me we'd get into this fight it
would blow up and then eventually we'd
make up but he didn't do that pattern he
wrote back and said it sounds like
you're upset we should talk about this
in person and it was this crazy moment
where I was like wait we're not going to
do the thing that I always do with
everyone we're going to do this
different thing and it just dissipated
all of the anger because he was
acknowledging that I was upset but he
was suggesting a healthier plan and I
don't think that it's unrelated to the
fact that his mom is a therapist so
dating this secure person made me so
much more secure where I broke out of
the anxious avoidant loop I got over the
silly Burning Man guy and I understood
what a secure relationship was like and
I feel so lucky to be in this secure
marriage and sometimes when I think
about My Career Success I'm like I
couldn't have done it without my husband
not because he's involved with my career
but I really feel like 20 to 50% of my
brain was in these spirals worrying
about people being anxiously attached
ruminating on them and just being in a
secure relationship actually gives you a
lot of peace and you can use that brain
power for something else but any 50% of
people you said are the secure ones that
everybody wants yeah yeah so I think
it's a combination of you can become
more secure yourself or you can find a
secure partner what's hard is that we
often confuse secure people for boring
that's what I was going to say I was I
wasn't sure whether to say it but secure
sounds a bit you know wallpaper yes and
that's what people don't understand so
people think oh like I had a client who
said to me I went on a date with this
guy we went out a few times I told him I
was going to Seattle and then he sent me
all these recommendations for Seattle so
I'm never going to see him again I was
like what are you talking about she's
like that's so desperate I was like this
is just a nice guy who's trying to tell
you about a cool bookstore in Seattle
like why can't you see that as somebody
that's interested in you and putting in
effort but to her in the anxious
avoidant Loop what she wanted was
someone who was unavailable and that's
what's so hard I feel like there's all
these lovely securely attached people
out there that are probably like Oh I'm
a dud nobody wants me it's like baby
somebody wants you they just haven't
figured it out yet and so some of the
work that I do is train people to look
for secure partners and so things like
are they consistent do they not play
games are they clear about their
interest in you and so we actually have
to understand that securely attached
partners are the heroes of the
relationship world and they're great to
be in relationships with they have
healthier relationships and you have to
train yourself to go for that and to
break out of this anxious avoidant loop
I could probably hasit a guess as to
which attachment style ends up in
marriage the mo the most and stays in
marriage marriage but I'm also quite
curious about which attachment style is
most likely to get the most attention
mhm you know because from what we've
just talked about there there is a hint
of vanilla to the person that there is a
hint of vanilla to the secure attachment
style and there's a hint of excitement
associated with the avoidant attached
style you know CU one of the principles
I learned about attraction is this idea
of um social proofing and that and one
element element of social proofing is
not appearing to be so interested
because that raises your the perception
of your value so if we're having a
conversation if I'm kind of Blas about
you and a little bit uninterested it
raises my social value therefore you'll
think I may be more valuable yeah um so
I was thinking maybe these avoidant
attached people getting the most sort of
short-term interest I don't know is that
I think that's exactly right and even
when you said that it reminded me of how
I felt with the berning man Guy where
the story in my head was if you don't
want me you must be better than me I
think so many many of us feel that way
it's like well as soon as you reject me
you have more power than me and for me
to regain power I want to get you
interested in me instead of a much
healthier mindset which is I want the
person I choose to choose me back that's
how un low that we're a match so I want
to tell you about this interesting
application of research so the term
boy has been around for a little while
and I people kept asking me what's going
on with boys why do I keep falling
for boys there's boy Island
there's all this stuff and I was like
why are people so addicted to boys
and so there's this really interesting
research from the psychologist BF
Skinner and it's a study with pigeons so
for the first pigeon the pigeon is in a
little cage with a lever every time that
the pigeon presses the lever food comes
out and so that's pigeon number one then
there's pigeon number two they're also
in a cage with a lever in the beginning
every time that they press the lever
food comes out okay so now they're the
same but then the first pigeon it stays
the same they press the lever food comes
out and this is called The Continuous
reward schedule the second pigeon over
time the schedule changes sometimes when
they press the lever food comes out
sometimes when they press it it doesn't
come out maybe it might take them five
or 20 times of pressing it for the food
to come out and that's called the
partial reward schedule so with the
first pigeon once they turn off the food
the pige will press it a few more time
see there's no more food and stop
pressing it the second pigeon once they
turn off the food it will literally keep
pressing the lever until it collapses
from fatigue and that's because the
partial reward schedule is so addictive
that's also how slot machines work
that's how gambling works sometimes I
get what I want and sometimes I don't so
I want to keep trying and I want to keep
trying and that's what's happening with
boys so boys give you a
attention in the beginning right you get
what you want they seem interested in
you you go out then they start pulling
back they're hot and cold sometimes
they're interested sometimes they're not
and you become addicted to that partial
reward schedule will this time when I
press the lever will you text me back or
not and it feels really exciting and so
securely attached partners are the
levers in the first one where they
interest in you and they loving you is
continuous and that's what we should go
after because that's what a healthy
relationship is but people get so
addicted to the boys and to the
partial reward schedule that they're
trapped in this cycle and so our brains
are really they really develop in this
way where when we don't know if we'll
get what we want or not it's really
exciting but that's not what's aligned
with long-term relationship success oh
that makes perfect
sense tell me about you I want I I feel
like from listening to your episodes I
was like this is an avoidant attached
maximizer this is a reformed Buck boy
but what was the dynamic like with you
and your girlfriend so for the first 25
years of my life I was the avoidant
again grew up in said this a million
times but grew up in a household where I
think I thought relationships were
prison I I ran from everybody that was
interested in me and then I met a person
who was H I would say she sits somewhere
between being secure but also anxiously
attached she has hints of both I get
that where she's a really calm
communicator and
and she
can just like like your husband if
there's a problem like we should talk
about it we should sit down and have a
conversation about it not scream at each
other not get um
agitated um and being with her slowly
eased me out of my cycle it's still
there and it's still can be triggered
and when it gets triggered this is how
it looks and and this is how I know
she's a bit of an anxious
attached she'll we'll be on a date on
Saturday I
will stop paying attention to her in
some way
she will then increase the amount of
need she has of my attention she'll
start kind of like pecking because she's
seen that she's no longer getting my
attention then she goes really really
quiet mhm because she's now really
annoyed yeah because she lost my
attention I then see she's annoyed
yeah I don't want to
argue but I want I want to know why
she's annoyed I ask her why she's
annoyed she basically explains that did
something seven minutes ago that made
her feel whatever I then we kind of get
into it a little bit and I want to leave
I want to like get my stuff and go to a
hotel and I have to say in my head don't
leave the house don't leave the house
don't leave the house and at that point
what she wants to do is she wants to
Chase and this is kind of like a toxic
combination cuz I'm trying to get out
the front door and she wants to solve it
and wants me to be even closer so it's
almost like when we when we both get
triggered together she gets gets
increasingly needy and I want to run
yeah you really just describe the
anxious avoidant Loop and it's exactly
that it's like I feel she feels
disconnected from you so she wants to
reattach and you feel smothered or
trapped and so you need space exactly
and then it's not that you're
relationship is doomed in any way it's
that you just have to learn how to both
regulate your emotions and so for you it
might be saying I see that you're really
upset obviously something happened that
went wrong I need a few minutes to
regulate and so in that moment you're
experiencing flooding where your
cortisol is riding rising and you
actually are in fight ORF flight mode
and this is a really common thing in
fights is that people don't take enough
breaks so if you at all feel like you're
flooding you can ask for a break but
it's not saying this isn't important to
me it's not saying we're never going to
talk about this it's just saying I
actually can't have this conversation in
this moment with where my head is at and
for her it's also understanding what did
you do that triggered her and what could
she do in that moment differently and so
we talked about the strategies for
avoidant attached but I can also talk
about the strategies for anxious
attached so for example distracting
yourself going for a walk going to the
movies doing something else um texting a
friend and saying I really want to text
the guy I'm interested in but he hasn't
texted me back so I'm texting you
instead or something called
disconfirming evidence which is a fancy
way of saying basically what's the
alternative here so the story in your
head is I texted him a meme this morning
he hasn't texted me back he usually text
me back right away clearly he's not
interested and he's met someone else
disconfirming evidence would
be maybe he has a really busy week at
work he mentioned that he has a big
project or perhaps he's not feeling well
what are the other reasons that he could
not be getting in touch with you and
it's about not creating a problem before
you know there's a real problem and so
both of you could work on those
different strategies so that you can
have this healthy relationship and that
you're not constantly in what you call
that toxic cycle of she's chasing and
you're running yeah it's and I I agree
we she's by far I'm not just saying this
because she probably's going to listen
I'll probably send her the episode
because I always do by far the best
relationship I've ever had in my entire
life and I will 100% marry her as soon
as she says yes yay but we do have that
Loop but one thing that's interesting so
I know about this from reading about it
online it sounds like you were dating
and then you broke up and then you went
to Bali to chase her yes this is true
you still and so right so when I hear
that I'm like oh there's something in
the dynamic where you as an avoidant
attached person you doing the chasing
that was breaking a pattern for you and
so what was going on with that
interesting yeah so we we were together
for about two years and it wasn't it
wasn't a great relationship in hindsight
at that point cuz we were clearly quite
immature and then we're lying in bed in
Paris and she turns to me and says I no
longer she says something along the
lines of I don't like having sex with
you and I didn't really know what that
meant like I'm a I'm a young guy I'm
like 25 26 years old no one's ever said
that to me before I think I'm you
know like I'm a stud I'm like yeah what
what do you mean I've like I've I've
always got compliments does that mean
that I'm bad in bed what does that mean
really a mascula thing to hear and so
very quickly after that we broke up and
then we were separated in that time Co
rolls around she's not feeling great and
locked down she knows that because of
that incident but also just how she's
feeling in her life anyway the
depression all those kinds of things
something's not right she needs to go
she spends the next two years living in
barley but so a year after the date when
we we broke up I had you know looked at
what else was out
there and I think part of me had
realized that that's probably that is
the best person I'm ever going to meet I
say it to my friends all the time I say
I will I cannot find a better person and
I think I'd had that realization that
this was maybe the best person I'll ever
meet um and so I made a plan I got on a
plane I
flew to Barley and went there really
with the the aim of apologizing but Loki
the aim was to get her back in some way
went and apologized she just wasn't
interested in me she wasn't rude she was
really sweet and nice there was no
romantic interest in me whatsoever and
then on like I'm there for four weeks in
total staying at the other side of the
island with a friend of mine and then in
the last week of my trip to Barley my
sort of apology tour
things slowly start to change and it
actually happened when I said to where
I'm going to go going back to the UK
um and it's been lovely being here with
you I sent her a nice text message and
said you're doing really well I'm so
proud of like the progress you're making
on yourself and stuff and then the next
day she text me saying can I see you
before I go part of me is thinking I've
been here for three and a half weeks
you've shown no interest to me
whatsoever maybe this is my last chance
at Victory I'll just tell her to f off
and again my mature brain for whatever
reason showed up instead of course you
can see me before you go and it was in
those last 48 hours that everything
changed that's when it was like we fell
back in love with each other in those
last 48 hours before I flew and we've
been together ever since wow yeah thank
you for sharing that with me I feel like
there's so many good moments in there I
got the chills when you were talking
about how you could have chosen one path
which was to say off but you chose
to say of course you can see me because
that's the moment of growth that's why I
do the work that I do that's why I coach
because we can just keep repeating the
same patterns over and over again I work
with 70-year-olds who have been doing
the same thing over and over again and
it's not until we understand this is a
choice and I can make a different one
that we get different results and so for
you let's just break down that story and
think about all the different moments so
when she left and she was doing her own
thing she probably became more
attractive to you because she wasn't
chasing you anymore and she was
independent and then when you showed up
you were doing what she probably wanted
for a lot of the time which which is
getting attention from you but still she
wasn't needy in that moment as soon as
you got there she wasn't like finally we
can be together you had to choose each
other and so both of you overrode your
natural tendencies to really be in that
moment and be your highest selves and
there's just so many universes in which
that didn't happen but because you flew
there you overrode this avoidant
attachment and you made mature choices
you get this incredible prize of being
with your girlfriend it's so C it's so
crazy when you say there's so many
universes where that wouldn't have
happened yeah so the way that I see it
is a great relationship is the
culmination of a series of decisions am
I ready to date who should I date who
should I keep dating who should I get
serious with who should I marry who
should I have kids with and at each
moment you get to choose and so the
people in great relationships have made
a bunch of good choices and so if you
are single and you don't want to be you
need to take a step back and so in my
coach coing a lot of the work I do with
people is looking at what's your
relationship history we start with
Middle School people tell me you know I
was the only South Asian kid in a class
full of white people and I never felt
attractive until I went to Stanford and
was around other South Asian people or
people tell me I got a lot of attention
and so I got a big head and I didn't
develop a personality and people have
all these stories about who they are and
then they tell me about the
relationships they've been in and
sometimes they've been in abusive
relationships sometimes they've been in
just one long relationship and so they
have these patterns and so we say what
are those patterns resulting in and how
can you make different choices to get
different results and so really where
the Behavioral Science part of my work
comes in is understanding that we have
these default behaviors we have these
patterns and it's not until we
illuminate those blind spots and then
actively make different choices that
we'll get the different results and for
you that worked but there's definitely a
world in which you and I are meeting
here and you're still single you're
avoiding attached and I'm trying to give
you this advice but nothing really
changes until you make the different
Choice there was a couple other things I
wanted to follow up on from the story so
have you heard of the secretary problem
only in your book okay so let me tell
you about it and I I should give credit
to where I heard about it so there's a
great book called algorithms to live by
and that's how I came across this so
this is the mathematically correct way
to know when to stop looking and when to
choose someone so the idea is Imagine
that you're hiring a secretary and you
have a hundred people to choose from and
you have to go through each one one at a
time and say yes or no so after the
first person yes or no after the second
person yes or no and if you say no you
can't go back so the question which is
part of this way of mathematical
thinking called optimal stop theory is
how many people should you go through
because if you choose too early you
don't know what's out there but if you
choose too late maybe all the good
people have passed you by and so the
mathematically correct answer is that
you go through the first 37 people 37%
and you say who is the single best
person of that 37% that's now your
benchmark person the next time that you
find someone who's better than that
Benchmark person you hire them okay so I
go I I'm interviewing someone to be my
assistant let's say I go through 37
people and this can be used in the
context of dating as well yeah and I
find someone called Jenny who was the
best of the
37 but I've said no to
so I can't go back and get Jenny so I've
been on a date with Jenny or whatever
I've interviewed Jenny so I'm now at
interview number
38 what do I do the next you you keep
going until you find someone who you
like more than Jenny and then you say I
found her and you stop and the reason
why this is so important is because if
you're a maximizer and we should get
into what that means you want to keep
looking and there are so many people who
just have found someone who's better
than their Benchmark person but they
keep looking and they keep looking and
then they keep looking and the pool is
getting smaller and smaller and they
don't realize it and so here's how that
applies to dating we don't know how many
people you'll date but one way we can
think about it is let's just approximate
how long somebody might date so let's
say somebody dates from ages 18 to 40
what is 37% of the way through so it's
when you're 26.1 years old so at that
point you should look back and say who
is my Jenny who was my Benchmark person
the next time you find someone who you
like more than that Benchmark person
choose them and try to build a
relationship with them and why this is
so important is so many people keep
looking so many people keep searching
they're waiting for the perfect person
and they don't understand that
relationships are about finding somebody
great and building a great relationship
not the continuous search to find the
perfect person who doesn't exist and
that's a statistical mathematical
equation that says on average if we do
date from 18 to 40 then by 26 if you've
already met someone who could be your
benchmark person and that you should
keep that as the framework and so the
reason it's relevant to your story is
you had a feeling that your girlfriend
was your benchmark person or was your
person and so you broke you guys broke
up for a year you looked around and you
were like there's nobody better and so
obviously things are not exactly the
same as a secretary problem and you
could go back and you were lucky enough
to be able to go back and find her but
it was that feeling of I've seen what's
out there she's the best that's who I
want and I feel like so often people
don't recognize how good the person
they're with is or they get way past 37%
and they're still looking and so a lot
of the work I try to do with people is
to help them understand I know you're a
maximizer I know you're trying to find
the perfect person but instead I want
you to find somebody amazing and build a
relationship with them and not be in
this Perpetual cycle of trying to trade
up so interesting you talked about this
concept called maximizer which I want to
double down on but um I feel like there
will be a bunch of people out there who
CL ask themselves as the first first
attachment style anxiously attached that
needs some help and advice so my
girlfriend I think she's a little bit
anxious attached what do anxious
attached people need to know um to
increase their probability of finding
love so you Illustrated this really well
in your story so you talked about how
your girlfriend will want attention from
you you don't give it to her she tries
and then she shuts down so that's
exactly what we see with anxious
attached people so let me give you the
equivalent of what I gave you for the
avoid and attached so an anxious
attached person will have a trigger so
for example the trigger would be I ask
somebody if we're hanging out tomorrow
and they didn't get back to me so after
the trigger happens they go into
activating strategy so those are
thoughts or feelings where you start
spiraling and you're thinking they're
not interested in me they met somebody
else there's something else going on
they don't like me anymore and you
really are getting into that danger zone
of coming up with all these reasons why
that person is going to abandon you
which is your biggest fear so then you
do protest Behavior so the protest
behavior and trust me I've been there is
sending 10 texts in a row maybe it's
sending 20 texts in a row leaving an
angry voicemail so really acting out and
then afterwards you decide to punish the
person and you shut down so you send all
those texts you send threats and then
you turn off your phone and so you're
really in this tough place where you've
tried to reconnect with somebody and
then you've gotten so upset that they're
abandoning you that you actually pull
back and so that sort of describes what
might be happening with your girlfriend
sometimes where she doesn't get what she
wants it's very frustrating for her and
then she shuts down so the strategies
for the anxious attached I talked about
them before but I'll say them again so
some of the strategies for anxious
attached are distracting yourself so
going for a walk doing something else
where you're not on your phone where
you're basically not in a mode where
you're waiting for somebody to text back
I feel like those are the longest
minutes of my life are waiting for that
text back from that person the second
thing is
to text somebody else you know I wish I
could say this to him and the third
thing is this disconfirming evidence
it's almost like inside your head is a
judge and a jury and you're presenting
to the judge here's all the reasons why
it could not be true so then you're
presenting to the judge and the jury
here's all the reasons why that person
might not be texting me back and so
you're really doing everything that you
can to not get into that protest
Behavior moment because once you're
flooded once you're in that protest
Behavior moment it's really hard to
recover and so it's both people are
working on having different reactions to
triggers and honestly if you look at all
of the mindfulness stuff if you look at
the work of Victor Frankle and man Man's
Search for meaning so much of it is this
idea of creating more space between an
action and a reaction and if you can
extend that space and choose a different
reaction that's where the growth comes
from and that's how we can overcome
these negative behavioral
Trends something you said that made me
think about advice I once gave to a
friend that I'm not sure is good or bad
advice she was being
ghosted
and she came to me telling me she'd been
ghosted and she showed me her phone and
was like look and I looked at her phone
conversation with this person and she
was basically peppering him she was
dragging the conversation you know what
I mean where she's like asking the
questions and he's giving um closed
responses then she's asking another
question then he's giving a closed
response it was that cycle over and over
again then the next day she text him and
he didn't reply and I said to her she's
a good friend of mine she works in one
of my companies I said I think it's
important to realize that people do what
they want to
do and the reason I said that to her is
because she had started justifying I
think in her her own mind what I saw as
a clear rejection as something else I
said I think it's important to let you
know that just remember people do what
they want to do he would have woke up
this morning I'm sure he brushed his
teeth because he wanted to do that he
then would have eaten breakfast because
I'm sure he wanted to do that so if he's
not texting you back over and over again
and you feel like you're constantly
dragging the conversation I think it's
important to know that he's doing what
he wants to do and it's maybe a bit of
harsh advice but I don't know I think
that's great advice and I'm I'm smiling
and I have sympathy for your friend
because I feel like I've really been
there obviously I don't know anything
about her but let's say she's wired like
me it's like well when I want something
I go after it and it works in every
other area of my life I set goals I go
after them I achieve them and people
respect the hustle it doesn't work in
dating you can't hustle your way into a
relationship and I think that's why so
many of the women I work with are really
smart and ambitious and they're like
I've run a marathon I have amazing
personal finances I've achieved all
these goals why isn't dating working out
for me and it does feel like this one
aspect of your life where you can't
muscle your way through it you actually
have to learn this pretty Nuance stance
and so for her she wasn't getting the
cues
and she wasn't getting the clues and so
I just finished a bunch of research at
hinge on this idea that we're calling
DBL digital body language and so we talk
about body language in normal
conversation which is what are the
non-verbal things that you're
communicating are you crossing your arms
you're not interested in me are you
opening up are you interested in having
this conversation even The Way We Stand
well most of early dating is now
happening over text what is your digital
body language saying and so through this
research I have this whole list of good
DBL and bad DBL or signs that somebody's
interested you and signs that they're
not and this guy is doing all the signs
that you're not he's answering the
questions with one-word answers he's not
asking a follow-up question he's not
matching her style and so for her I
think it should be a sign that he's not
interested but she wants him to be
interested so she's going to keep trying
and in her in her head which I have been
there it's like oh I just haven't found
the perfect question yet for him to open
up to it's like no he's not interested
in you and I can hear my college
roommate saying to me Logan don't make
somebody a priority when they're making
you an option and that's what's
happening with her she's prioritizing
him but he's not prioritizing her I
think your advice is exactly right
people do what they want to do and he's
choosing not to invest in that
relationship but at the end of the day
that was not your guy he had already
indicated in multiple ways that he
wasn't interested you were still
grasping on to the crumbs but you don't
want the crumbs you deserve the whole
cookie it's not like you ruin things
with your person he wasn't your person
and she always dates people that are
either in marriages already or
unavailable yeah well I mean going back
to our theme of the anxious avoidant
Loop and she's drawn to this avoidant
person and when they're unavailable she
loves the Chase and how can I convince
them I don't know if she's Found Love
since but I feel like growth for her
will look like choosing somebody who's
available and retraining her brain to
see their availability as sexy and and
interesting and correlated with
relationship success which is going to
feel different than how dating has been
which is she's been going after people
who are not available something she said
to me kind of correlates to this because
she was um on a dating app she hates
dating apps but she was on a dating app
B mind she's a mid-30s woman um and
there was this wonderful like this
really like wonderful guy he's nicely
mannered guy and she said I'm not
interested in him I said why she goes
look at the background of his or
whatever it was photo there's boxes on
top of his cupboard uh and that was her
reason for this like I thought I was
like that's a really good guy he's got a
great job seems really nice he's been
really polite to her and the reason why
she didn't want to be with him was
because there was a box on the Wardrobe
behind him in the Tinder picture this is
what frustrates me about modern dating
and you used the word ick before so I
know you're familiar with it but the ick
has become this trend where only because
of her oh you know better from her okay
she she says to me so PE for people
listening who haven't heard of it the
ick is this new trendy word that
basically means the reason why all of a
sudden you're not interested in someone
and so my friend is the comedian Jared
freed and he does hilarious bits about
this and so he travels around the
country asking women for their EXs and
one of them is you're having an amazing
date you want to go home with the guy
it's time to pay the bill you open you
you pull out your wallet and you hear he
has a velcro
wallet the ick you're not sleeping with
him and he has these hilarious bits one
woman told him my ick was that I was on
a date with a guy and I imagined him
being late for his bus and running for
the bus and I could never be with him
and Jared's like to be clear there was
no bus and there was no running and
she's like I just imagined
it and that's what's you know the ick is
hilarious when Jared does it it's
hilarious you're laughing at it but I'm
also like you know what I think we
should get over the ick because the ick
is just an excuse to not not get close
to someone and I found in my work that
people often confuse pet peeves for deal
breakers so a pet peeve is something
that annoys you maybe it's the velcro
wallet but you could get over it a deal
breaker is a fundamental incompatibility
right I have asthma and you're a smoker
this isn't going to work and so when all
these people are confusing catp for deal
breakers sorry it's the velcro wallet I
it's so funny because you feel it you're
like yes that's not sexy get a new
wallet but it doesn't mean you couldn't
be with that person now you've said it
though there's going to be a lot of
people that go on dates and that it's
going to be the deal breaker yes or
maybe we're saving relationships maybe
people are going to get rid of those
velcro wallets and actually get laid
more what is it about a velc crew wallet
though that I think it feels very high
school what do you think like that's
exactly I had one when I was 12 right
like when you think
of the CEOs that you admire you're not
like Jeff bezos's pulling out his velcro
wallet like this guy maybe he doesn't
even have a wallet but you know what I
mean and it's just this thing where it's
like because you have this one thing
wrong with you I can't be with you
instead of being reasonable which is I
can buy you a new wallet if we
date this is a fixable problem but
because people get this people get
positive feedback for these stories
right like you have the date with velker
wallet guy you don't sleep with him
Sunday morning you go to brunch with
your friends you get all the social
capital for telling the story and now
we're having that on a massive scale
with Tik Tok how many people are getting
a lot of positive feedback and shares
for these Horror Story these dating
horror stories and so what ends up
happening is it's dat entertainment
you're dating for entertainment which I
love dating stories this is probably one
of the reasons I do the work I do is
because I love Sunday brunches about
dating that's the Sex in the City Empire
but if you're dating for the funny story
and you're not dating for connection
you're not going to hit goals and so yes
the velcro wallet isn't sexy I'm not
saying it is but get over
it X do you think that X are as you said
kind of more of an excuse It's funny
because I know I know someone who runs a
dating podcast and she goes on honestly
three or four dat dates a week she is a
little bit of a hopeless romantic yeah
um and I wondered to myself I said she
goes she must have been on like a
hundred dates a
year and yet she still can't find
someone like statistically I'm like you
it's it can't be a supply problem that's
exactly how I feel I meet with people
and they say Logan I've been on a 100
dates in the last two years and I
haven't met someone should I move what's
wrong with the people out there it's
always about how their city is wrong for
dating it's what's wrong with everybody
else and what I say in my head and what
I say out loud to them is there was very
likely somebody within that 100 person
dating pool who you could have made it
work with and we need to figure out why
it didn't click because you will now go
on 100 more dates and the same thing
will happen unless you make a different
choice and so this is how I developed
this framework that I want to tell you
about called the three dating Tendencies
and so really this is the culmination of
a lot of my research the idea that I've
worked with hundreds of people now
thousands of people in my classes and
most people suffer from one of these
dating Tendencies or most people can be
categorized into one of these three
dating Tendencies what they each have in
common is unrealistic expectations so
the first type is the romanz and they
have unrealistic expectations of
relationships so they are the person who
really wants that meat cute they cousin
met their boyfriend in high school and
now they're married and they want to
have a romantic we met story they don't
want to meet on an app they believe that
there's a soulmate one person for Life
you'll know it when you see it as soon
as a relationship hits a rough spot they
think must not be my soulmate because if
it was my soulmate it would be easy and
effortless the second type is the
maximizer
the maximizer has unrealistic
expectations of their partner so this is
the person and I bet a lot of your
listeners are maximizers where they feel
like the perfect person is only one
search away I need to keep searching for
that person I want the ambition of my
ex-girlfriend plus the hotness of this
other ex-girlfriend plus the really
great family of this other person and I
can just wait until I find this
Frankenstein version of the perfect
person and so they're always waiting and
theyve unrealistic expectations and
they're waiting for the perfect person
the third type is the hesitat and they
have unrealistic expectations of
themselves so they're not dating at all
so in their head they fill in the blank
I'll be ready to date when when I lose
10 pounds when I get a more impressive
job when I clean up my apartment when I
go to therapy I need to do these things
to be lovable and then I can date I
can't date now because nobody would be
interested in me and so they sit at home
maybe trying to get better maybe just
thinking about trying to get better but
they're not actually dating and they
don't understand that the only way to
get better at dating is by dating and
the only way to figure out who you want
to be with is by actually going on dates
with
people and if I'm if I'm a romanticizing
so in the example I gave there with my
friend's going on a 100 dates and she's
finding no apparent suitable match it
could be any of the first two I guess
she could be a bit too romantic about
how love should look or she could be a
little bit too romantic about how a
perfect partner should look exactly and
I would want to understand more about
her but yes definitely one of the first
two if she's going 100 date she's not a
hesitat so I'd want to understand why
aren't things working out so it could be
that she's finding that they don't match
her image of the soulmate they don't
come in the package that she's expecting
my guess is the kind of person that goes
on that many dates for that long is a
maximizer that's just to me more
associated with it because to go on that
many dates you probably are meeting on
the apps and so she's not obsessed with
the we met story and so I think she
keeps going on these dates waiting for
something different to happen instead of
understanding what's in her control and
so if I was working with her what I
would say is first of all tell me about
these dates and she'd probably say I go
on so many dates I mostly go on coffee
and walking dates and then I would say
well do you feel sexy on these dates or
does it feel like a job interview are
you saying the same thing things over
and over again are you pressing play in
your mind how long have you lived in
London how long have you done your job
how long have you had a dating podcast
you're not even in the moment you've
said these things to so many people
you're not present you're not connecting
you're not flirting you're just having a
transaction and you expect that all of a
sudden you're going to feel the spark
but of course you're not your your
environment isn't creating a spark and
so I often tell people the dating
environment is so important I had this
one client and he kept going on dates
with men at 7: a.m. he would say I'm
really busy and I need to meet with them
in the morning and so I meet them at the
Starbucks below my office I was like who
feels sexy or flirty at 700 a.m. before
they've had caffeine this is a terrible
way to date but in his head it was like
I'll know it when I see it when I meet
the right person I'll have that
experience that's absolutely wrong the
environment plays a huge role in how we
feel connected to people it's why
sometimes somebody might meet somebody
in one setting and not be interested and
meet them years later and be interested
I met my
husband many years before we started
dating I met him in college it wasn't
the right time for us and then when we
met again it still took a year the
environment matters so much and so
really can you create a flirtatious
romantic environment for a date and can
you really think about what does that
look like and so if you're going on
daytime walking dates to save money and
that's not working out for you try a
wine bar try going out and sitting side
by side there's really interesting
research that shows when we make eye
contact with somebody it can actually be
harder to listen to them and to speak
because we're so focused on the eye
contact when we sit by side side by side
actually takes the pressure off us and
can make it easier to communicate and
connect that's why people open up to
each other on long car rides where
you're both looking forward that's why I
recommend that people sit side by side
in a bar instead of across from each
other and so for her she's going on one
type of date and getting the same result
and she's thinking it's the guy it's not
the guy it's also you and it's also the
environment so what is then the perfect
environment and I want you to give me as
much detail as possible including you
use the word bar which is associated
with alcohol yeah I want to know if
alcohol is a good or bad idea for a date
so I don't drink and I'm a fan of sober
dating and in my work with Jen Z that
has come up a lot so sober dating has
become a much bigger thing with jenzie
leading the charge and there's a few
reasons why so one is they feel like I
want to meet you not you under the
influence of two cocktails another thing
is we know that they struggle with
mental health they feel this anxiety and
they don't want to have that the next
day and so way more people are going on
sober dates and even especially in New
York I've seen bars that have zero proof
menus and so this is definitely getting
normalized and so anyone who's
interested in sober dating or just
taking a month off drinking should try
so absolutely don't feel like you need
the liquid courage what makes a great
date so I want people to think about
what is the part of you that often
doesn't come out on dates so let's say
somebody is really serious but they have
a funny side think about the last few
dates you've gone on what side of you is
coming out maybe you're going these
interview style dates where you sit
across from each other and you have a
latte and you talk about your work the
silly side of you isn't coming out and
you're just being very serious can you
design a date that emphasizes the part
of you that you want to come out so can
you go and play pingpong which you're
really bad at can you go ice skating and
make a fool of yourself can you be in an
environment where you're less in control
and you can show the silly side of
yourself or even for me I love stand-up
comedy could you go see standup with
someone and then afterwards debrief all
the jokes and and express your love of
humor how can you have your dates show
these different sides of yourself
another thing is understanding that at
the end of the day people really want
somebody to play with in so much of my
coaching I talk to people after the and
we debrief the thing that makes me
understand when they like someone is
when they say it was so fun we just kept
laughing everybody wants to laugh people
want to align themselves with and have a
long-term relationship with somebody
who's fun but it's really hard because
if you're in your mid-30s and you've
been dating for a while and you have
this feeling of I'm running out of time
everyone else is married am I going to
have kids it's really hard to
relax and be fun you have a goal and
trust me I'm the most goal oriented in
person I get it but you have to do this
dance of flirtation seduction
playfulness because people don't want to
be with someone who says I have the role
of husband open will you please fill the
role of husband I'm I'm searching to
fill the spouse position on my team no
nobody wants that they want a partner
they want a person to play with they
want to have that fun romantic playful
energy and so you have to figure out are
you able to show up that way and if not
you need to take a break from dating or
you need to date differently so that
might look like instead of going from
work to a date where you're in this boss
mode maybe you take a break in between
maybe you listen to a podcast maybe you
take a bath maybe you what kind of put
cost Diary of a CEO pump yourself up
with stepen Bartlett you know basically
you're shifting your mindset because if
you you know this old expression that's
like whether you think things will go
poorly or you think things will go well
you're right the same thing is true with
dating your mindset has a huge impact so
if you've gone on a 100 dates and it
hasn't worked out you're going to say
101 is going to go the same way it will
then go the same way so what are all the
different things that you can change you
can change what you wear you can change
what you do you can change what you do
prior you can change how long the date
is one of my biggest things is date like
a scientist what does a scientist do
they have a hypothesis they test it and
they're open to being proven wrong and
so maybe your hypothesis is that the
coffee dates aren't working for you
great try some dinner dates try some
morning dates try different things and
see if something opens something new for
you maybe it wasn't the coffee dates but
at least you tested it so one thing that
frustrates me so much about modern
dating is when women set their height
filters for six feet or higher I know in
the US 86% of men are under 6t so when
you set your height filter at 6 ft or
taller you are
excluding 86% of men you are only now
seeing 14% of men and then among that
group the pool is much smaller maybe
you've dated many of them in your city
and now you don't have anyone else to
date well you should expand your filters
because the height of the guy isn't
going to predict your relationship
success but you've just decided that you
want someone six feet or taller and so
you've set your preferences that way so
dating like a scientist you might say
I'm going to expand my filters I'm going
to date men of any height or set
whatever minimum height you want and
then see can I be attracted to someone
shorter I do this with my clients all
the time and they find that it is
actually much more about the person's
personality or face but your dating app
filters are like a bouncer in your club
they're deciding who gets in and who
doesn't and when you when you set your
filter at something really restrictive
like under the age of 30 over 6 feet
tall your bouncers is preventing all
these people from getting in and you're
not even getting the chance to connect
with people who could be a great
partner there's also like dating hygiene
that goes into that I guess you me and
my girlfriend when we go to restaurants
and stuff when we're waiting for the
food or I don't know we sometimes look
over at different people and we're like
oh who do you think they are like what
do you think their story is and we try
and guess their story you know they're
married they've been married for 20
years they're whatever and then you get
The Odd Couple who they're super young
and they're both glued to their phone
and it looks like it's either a really
really bad day or they just generally
have like a not not such a great
relationship what is the kind of good
relationship hygiene or good dating
hygiene that you think is conducive with
finding somebody I'm so glad you asked
me this because we actually just
produced this thing at hinge called the
distraction free dating guide and it's
basically based on this it's like what
are all the things that are getting in
people's way and one of them is
technology so I've absolutely seen those
dates and it's really people of any age
I don't think it's just genen Z I feel
like that's unfair when people are like
genen Z is so addicted to technology
it's like who's all over Facebook it's
Boomers who's the couple with their
phones at it's often older people and so
the distraction free dating guide is
about understanding the research behind
this so there's research from MIT
Professor Sher turl that talks about the
influence of a phone on the depth of the
conversation so if a phone is on the
table even if it's face down even if
it's off you're much less likely to have
a deep conversation because the reason
is right now you and I are going deep
your phone is not out I don't feel like
at any moment you're about to be
interrupted
but if I felt like at any moment I could
share something really deep and then
your phone could go off and you could
grab it that makes me not feel safe
sharing so the conversation is more
shallow because at any moment you could
be pulled away so the first big tip is
to put your phone away out of site the
second tip is to know that there's other
screens involved your watch is a screen
you could also be pulled away by that I
also recommend that people finish up any
big work conversations or even life
conversations before they go in so
they're not feeling like oh I have to
get back to that person sometimes people
pull out their phones to show somebody a
meme during the date do that later let
that be your call back where you can get
in touch with somebody and finally if
you have plans for after the date make
sure that they're really solid so that
you're not during the date checking hey
hey let me just see when my friends want
to meet up and so all of these things
all of these things seem fairly obvious
right good phone
hygiene but people don't understand how
much their phones are getting in the way
of connection that if you act just
commit to having a phone free date hey
let's both let's both just put our
phones away first person to check their
phone buys drinks it's actually a much
better way to create deeper connection
so on that point of shallow conversation
a lot of dates and a lot of sort of
Serial datas will engage in a lot of
small talk what's your view on Small
Talk skip the small talk so much of the
research that we've done at Hing talks
about how people are drawn to emotional
vulnerability interesting they really
want you to go deep and and they want to
know what you're about and through my
coaching I've been surprised at how hard
this is for people so I have one client
where I said you're going on all these
dates they're not
clicking I wonder what's going on what
do you talk about on these dates when
she told me the topics I was getting
bored just listening to them and I said
you're sharing facts not stories we need
you to share stories and she said what
do you mean what's a story what how
would I how would I tell that so I said
okay off the top of my head here are
some conversations you talk about I said
you know tell me about your family do
you have any siblings and she said yes I
have a brother and he lives across the
country from me so I said okay the fact
is that you have a brother who lives far
away what is the feeling behind it and
she said well he actually just had a kid
and I haven't even met the kid yet and I
feel disconnected from him and I'm like
great that's the story that's the
vulnerability the fact sets us up but
then go deeper and then we talked about
all these deeper things how she feels
when her friends have kids and she
doesn't and it's harder to have a
relationship how she feels about her
aging parents how she feels about her
industry and it it was so interesting to
me because I love conversation this is
my art form this is what I love doing
but just breaking it down into pieces
for her was something that she needed
and so I want people to take away this
idea of share stories not facts and that
means going deeper and so you don't want
to be TMI and tell everybody about the
crazy trauma in your family but you
might let somebody in and say oh I'm
struggling with this thing at work I
have a new manager and I feel like we
haven't clicked yet and there's been
layoffs at my company so it's kind of
been a stressful time or saying hey I'm
about to take this pill because I
actually was in an accident a few years
ago and now I need to take this pill to
regulate my system something like that
where it's just saying like I'm a person
with baggage I bet you're a person with
baggage too our baggage can match and
instead we're so focused on these dates
on coming across as perfect but the
truth is when you have a shiny perfect
exterior there's no cracks for me to
grab on to you actually need to show me
the cracks so that there's something to
grip and I can actually feel connected
to you and I feel like a lot of my work
with people especially older people is
telling them that it's safe to let
someone in and they've worked their
whole life 50 or 60 years to say look at
me look what I've accomplished I'm
puffing up my chest look at how perfect
I am but people aren't drawn to
perfection because then they feel afraid
of their own imperfections people are
drawn to somebody who's real because
then that creates a safe space for them
to be real too vulnerability is the
bridge I guess you could say
vulnerability creates a bridge to
connection um with that in mind is it
conceivable then that people that have
the lowest self-esteem feel the need to
create the perception of perfection the
most and therefore struggle because
thinking about one of my friends that
has low self-esteem
ahead of a date this person will it has
like a three-day routine where they go
and get their hair they everything done
fake tan bloody probably get their
toenails done wax this whack wax my butt
whatever and it's this huge thing they
have a really low self-esteem they go on
and they go on the date and I can only
just imagine as you were speaking that
they go on the date and try and like hit
this person with perfection like
everything about me is perfect I know
underneath that they're struggling with
their self-esteem and their self-image
but I it made me think that there might
be correlation between low self-esteem
and our willingness to be vulnerable
which will also mean our will our
ability to form connection I think it's
an interesting Theory I haven't studied
it I bet it happens both ways so I think
somebody with low self-esteem could feel
like I'm going to be rejected anyway so
I'm not even going to date so those
might be the hesitates that I talked
about they also might be the people that
you talked about where they're like I
have so many flaws I can't let you in
because if you know the real me you'll
reject me so I have to keep you at arms
length mhm however I also think there's
this other person who actually has
pretty high self-confidence but they go
through the world bragging or they say
the way that I got investors in my
company is by showing what a big man on
campus I am and how I'm going to scale
my company and that what Society has
prized in them is how together they are
so they've never been in a situation
before where their vulnerability has
been appreciated so it's actually pretty
hard for that person and I think that
just to generalize it this happens with
a lot of men where Society wants people
to be strong and wants people to feel
like they have all their together
and so then to suddenly say hey be
vulnerable on the date that doesn't feel
safe to them they don't have that and so
I don't think it's necessarily just low
self-esteem I also think it's they feel
like it's really risky to show that
they're not perfect that's the journey
I've been on is when I was younger and
most insecure I was never vulnerable
that felt like a huge risk that I was
not willing to take and as I got more
secure with myself I've been able to be
much more more vulnerable and that means
like having conversations where I admit
my and that's also why I think
this podcast has worked for me because I
I say on stage a lot I ran the
experiment of being honest I being
vulnerable about my about my
imperfection about my doubt about my
mental health all of these things and
that experiment resulted in connection
that I was not expecting I thought
vulnerability was a repellent turns out
it's a magnet and that was like a
revelation in my life so I've doubled
down on that that concept of just like
share it and instead of repelling people
it actually ends up drawing them closer
which I think is great I absolutely love
what you said and I hope people rewind
and listen to that part again because
that's honestly a lot of what I'm trying
to get across so a few months ago I sent
out this email to my newsletter and I
said do you worry you're undatable is
there something about you where you feel
like people will reject you because of
that what is that and hundreds of people
wrote in and they said I'm undatable
because I have a chronic illness that
makes me have chronic fatigue I'm
undatable because I don't have a close
relationship with my parents I'm
undatable because I've slept with too
many people I'm undatable because I
haven't slept with enough people every
side of every coin people felt like they
were undatable and then I turned that
around and the next email I sent out I
shared all these things and I said this
is what you're all feeling you all feel
like you're undatable because of these
things none of these things make you
undatable they actually are your
vulnerability that if you share somebody
will feel connected to you but you're
not putting it out there and you're not
sharing and you're not connecting and I
think people who have been on the
journey you're on have proven that when
you are vulnerable people feel connected
to you because they say Steven
struggling with something that I'm
struggling with I want to be a part of
what he's doing because I can learn from
him when you come across as perfect
people don't feel connected to you
because they can't relate my friends
that don't share their vulnerabilities I
feel less close to them because I'm like
well you must have it all figured out
and you must think I'm a mess but when
they text me what they're struggling
with and I text them with what I'm
struggling with that's the depth of our
friendship and I can judge my
friendships based on how real we we are
with each other and so I think that
younger people but really A lot of
people have this idea that if you really
knew me you would reject me and the
truth is if you really knew me you would
feel closer to me and we would have a
deeper connection so true even you know
I I talk about this experiment it's an
ongoing experiment I'm getting better at
being more and more vulnerable I think
it's only in the last like even I'd say
six months that I've open opened up to
my girlfriend about things I would
normally just keep from her as well like
how I'm really feeling when I have my
like really bad days share like run I
call it experiment because it feels like
one it is it is that's your life
experiment yeah yeah like letting her
know in those really tough moments how
I'm feeling and because I'm a man I
sometimes feel like I'm supposed to be
strong and perfect all the time but and
that like there's this part of my brain
that thinks okay if I share this with
her maybe she's going to like not think
I'm a man anymore because I'm like CU
I'm experiencing like a weak like an
emotion that Society might associate
with weakness but it's always been the
opposite and it's such a an illusion
that feeling that like opening up about
my emotions to her even when they
emotions of I don't know it could be
self-doubt or it could be like um
struggles with mental health that she
might run off and be like G yuck but
it's always the opposite right your your
relationship's getting deeper and deeper
and it's probably completely different
than the first era of your relationship
those first few years you weren't
sharing those things you were actually
having you were perfect perfectly
shallow
perfectly inauthentic and now that
you're in this inauthentic
relationship that's why she feels like
the love of your life that's one of the
reasons is because she's the person who
has made you feel safe and then you can
be your real self and I feel like that's
so much of the work that we're all doing
is when you see
me in my darkest moments in my hardest
times do you run towards me or do you
run away and so many of us don't even
get to that point of revealing ourselves
because we think the other person will
run away but you have revealed yourself
and she's gotten closer to you and
that's allowed you to feel safe doing
that even more and so it's this
perpetuating cycle of I share we connect
and then I can do it again but if you
don't share it all then you never get to
have that positive reinforcement that
comes from the connection but also in
there is I share we connect she feels
more safe to yeah yes connect that's a
huge part of it is when people say to me
Logan I know that I'm looking for a
long-term relationship when should I
bring that up we do this modeling
exercise where you say to somebody hey
I've been dating for a while I have had
some fun but I know that I'm looking for
a long-term relationship and I'm ready
to build a family what about you I
didn't come at you saying Stephen what
are you looking for because then you
feel like there's a right a wrong answer
I better tell her that I want a
long-term Rel relationship no you're
just going to say what you think I want
to hear by sharing the background and
letting you know what I'm looking for
I'm giving you space to be able to do
that and so a lot of it is I share first
and then you share I create the space to
share and so this is going to sound not
humble but my friend said to me she's
like Logan you're a great
conversationalist I've been trying to
analyze why what do you think it is and
I was like I don't censor myself I
really say what's going on so if you ask
me how I'm feeling I might say I feel
like I'm so stressed out I'm
experiencing burnout I'm forsaking my
relationship with my husband here's all
the things that are wrong and it's like
I don't even know how to just say I'm
fine but I think that when I do that
people are
like I can take a breath I can sigh I
can feel relieved because I can tell you
all the things that are wrong in my life
and not that every conversation should
be a venting session but I think that
people want to feel like they're getting
to know the real you and if they're only
getting the perfect you then they don't
feel like they know you at
all and there's something in that that
the 99% of our Lives is imperfect it is
messy it is like eating the pot noodle
on my stomach at 2 a.m. watching junk
television that is the 99% of my lives
but and we when we look out onto the
world on social media we see this we
obviously see this like highlight reil
which represents maybe the 1% of Our
Lives someone's in the Maldives we maybe
go there once in a while the thing that
we can connect with and relate to the
most is the mess of life so that's maybe
another reason why we find people
sharing their MTH so resonant because
it's the thing we can relate to the most
it's the thing we experience the most I
agree and I would I would mostly say
social media is bad for that because you
get more likes for the shiny picture on
your scuba vacas versus this is me with
my mascara running because I had a bad
day but I do think gen Z is doing a good
job at being more real I think their
interest in Tik Tok over Instagram sort
of their unfiltered view is kind of like
let's let it all hang out and I think
that people are actually responding to
authenticity even in my own social media
I'm trying to make that switch from like
the millennial have my together to
being more real and so I would say
overall I think social media is bad
because it perpetuates the idea that
you're the only one with the mess but I
do think things are potentially trending
in the right direction with Jen Z and
Tik Tok embracing some of the more real
unfiltered authenticity as you guys may
know this podcast is sponsored by one of
my favorite bands in all the world which
is whoop AI is a topic I've spoken about
various times on this podcast and it's a
topic that I'm pretty obsessed with but
we don't often talk about how it could
be used as a force to make our lives
even better whoop is using the power of
AI to drive meaningful positive change
my whoop doesn't leave my wrist and
their new feature which is called whoop
coach uses the power of advanced AI to
synthesize all of your health and
fitness data and to provide you with
personalized recommendations to support
you on your health and fitness journey
you can literally ask it questions like
why am I so tired or can you help me
build a strength training program and
its Advanced AI system will provide you
with answers that are unique to you so
if you would like to check it out and
level up your health and fitness journey
in the process go to join. whoop.com
CEO to get a free months whoop
membership some of the things that I
used to go for when I was younger when I
was looking for a perfect partner I
would be able to reel off things like I
want this color hair and I want them to
look like this and I want this this this
this it was like a shopping list like
apples plums it was like everything was
on there um as I got a little bit older
and I did a little bit of hindsight
research on what I was actually looking
for it the the list reduced and it
became more about fundamental things and
I got down to these three things I
thought you need in a partner to be
happy I'm going to run these things past
you and get your thoughts I believe you
need a sexual connection so I'll say
sexual attraction I I believe you need
an
intellectual connection and the last one
is I felt that you need to mutually bake
you need to mutually make each other
better at what you do and for me that's
like my mission doing this or running
businesses and for her it could be she's
a breath work practitioner and um
whatever else we make each other better
we're sexually attracted and we're
intellectually um stimulating of each
other I think those things are great I
don't think everyone should write them
down as their three things but I think
it works for you and I can tell you why
they are more about who the two of you
are together than her quality so maybe
your early list had this body type this
hair color this eye color this ethnicity
whatever it was it was about The
Superficial qualities and so there's
actually a term for this from
relationship science and we call it
relation shopping shopping for a partner
like you'd shop for a pair of bluetooth
headphones you log on to Amazon and you
say Okay I want ones that are this color
this weight this battery life and then
you start to think oh I can shop for a
partner the same way and it just doesn't
work what works is relation shipping
which is looking for a long-term partner
and putting in the work to make that
happen so you want to move from relation
shopping to relation shipping but this
is very common people come to me often
these maximizers and they say I know
exactly what I want Logan I just need
your help finding that person so rarely
does that ever work out the person that
ends up making them happy in the long
term is very rarely who they thought
they should be with and so the truth is
you think you know what you want but
you're wrong and the older you get and
the more you think you figured it out
the more you're actually excluding
really great partners because you think
oh I want to find someone like myself or
you think well if her parents are
divorced and she probably doesn't know
how to be in a great relationship so I
only will date people whose parents are
together you're making all of these
assumptions that are wrong the better
attitude is to date like a scientist I
think I need to be with somebody who's
this tall I think I need to be with
somebody whose parents aren't together
well date date someone who's different
from that and see if you could fall for
them and so when I'm working with
someone in a coaching capacity and they
say to me Logan I met this guy but he's
not my type in my head I hear ding ding
ding because that's often them making a
different Choice that's going to lead to
a different result and those are way
more often the relationships that work
out and so when people come to me with
that checklist I'm not saying great
let's run a LinkedIn search to find that
person I'm like let's do the work to
help you actually figure out who will
bring out the best side of you and I can
tell you all the research about what's
correlated with long-term relationship
success and what's not but my favorite
way of viewing it is who are you around
that person what side of you do they
bring out and so I have this list of
questions called the post- date 8 and
there are eight questions to ask
yourself after a date the point of the
post-date 8 is
that when you go on a date with a check
check list in your head you're
evaluating the person as if you're on a
job interview are they good-looking
enough for me are they ambitious enough
for me are they funny enough for me
you're evaluating instead with the post8
8 it's actually training you to tune
into your experience the experiential
mindset are we laughing together do I
feel desired in their presence do they
make me feel more energized or less
energized and finally what side of me do
they bring out because whoever that
person brings out in you is who you will
be for the rest of your life in that Rel
relationship and don't you want to be
the happy secure desired hilarious
version of yourself where do I find uh
this post date 8 picture in your book I
had this is something from my book that
I liked it but it's really blown up
because I feel like people really use it
they take a picture of it on their phone
they take a screenshot from my Instagram
and they ask themselves after the date
and it really changes the way they show
up on the date and it's also a great way
to say should I date this person again
because my slogan my motto has become
the spark and the spark is this
idea that we go after the
all-encompassing initial chemistry the
fireworks but the spark often leads to
relationships that burn out and instead
you should go after the Slow Burn the
person who's not initially as exciting
the secure person who' make a great
long-term partner but to train yourself
from looking for the spark to looking
for the Slow Burn how do you do that you
need a new barometer so with the
postdate 8 you ask yourself these
questions after a date and then you see
am I interested in um is my interest
trending upwards after each date and
it's a way of training your brain away
from the initial chemistry maybe the
anxious avoidant Loop to a new way of
dating so the post dat eight questions
are all kind of um they're all kind of
sensible yeah I'm pretty sensible and I
guess this is ranking them more on
whether they are a secure person than
whether they are that kind
of super spicy K and pepper maybe be
little bit abandoning anxious type yeah
I think it's I think it's doing a few
things so one is do you know the
research on gratitude journals and why
they work no so if you throughout the
day have to look for three things to
write in your Journal that you're
grateful for at the end of the day
you're training your brain to look for
those things like I almost missed my
flight but I made it maybe normally you
wouldn't even think about that but
because you have to look for things to
be grateful for you make a little mental
note and then you feel more gratitude
the same thing works with the post8 a
because I have to answer at the end of
the date what side of me did they bring
out how did I feel in my body I'm paying
attention to that during the date so
it's overriding the checklist mindset
it's overriding the evaluative mindset
I'm not thinking are you good enough for
me I'm thinking what are we creating
together so it's really training me to
be more Mindful and really tuning tune
in to what it feels like to be around
you because so often what happens with
daters is they think he's from a good
family he has a great resume he makes a
bunch of money we should work out this
should be a great relationship he's good
on paper well when you're in person he
makes you feel like he's rude to
you and he's
inconsiderate but you're so focused on
his resume qualities that you don't
think about it with the post8 8 you'll
be like I felt very bad on that date I
shouldn't see him again so it's taking
what people are doing wrong and it's
training them to focus on what really
matters what are some of the things that
people think matter less than they
actually do as it relates to finding
someone falling in love and having a
great relationship so some things that
people you know they think are really
important are actually not important in
reality yeah so let's go through that so
here are some things that matter less
than people think they do for long-term
relationship success so the first one is
looks of course you should be attracted
to the person but the truth is that we
have adaptation we adapt to whatever is
around us so I like to joke that even
the hottest person you know there's
somebody who's sick of sleeping with
them that's just the truth of the human
brain is that we adapt to what's around
us and so obviously you should be
attracted Ed to the person but I
wouldn't optimize for the hottest person
the next one is similar which is money
obviously money makes things easier
there's tons of research that when
couples have enough money to Outsource
things like cooking and cleaning and
child care they have more time to
connect but the same thing is true with
money and there's this idea called the
transition rule so when you think about
winning the lottery what you imagine is
going from your current salary to what
you would have with the lottery and what
that change would feel like but over
time and we know this from the research
about a year after you win the lottery
you are about as happy as you were
before because you've adapted to your
new circumstances and the same thing is
true with people who become
quadriplegics if I say to you how bad
would it feel to become a quadriplegic
you think about the change and you think
it would be extremely terrible but what
actually we find is that about a year
after becoming a quadriplegic somebody
is the same happiness as they were
before and so the same thing is true
with looks and money is that we adapt to
our circumstances so don't over optimize
for for it the next thing is having a
similar personality or similar Hobbies
it's fine if we have different Hobbies
as long as you make me feel like I can
explore mine without judging me for it
so interesting because me and my
girlfriend are completely different she
is super spiritual she believes things
that are metaphysical and can't be
proven and I'm like science science
science evidence right and maybe at some
point in your life you thought oh we
have to have the same interest no you
probably both want to be curious and be
respectful and you want understand her
breath work stuff it doesn't mean you
need to share it and with similar
personalities it's the same idea I
remember I was coaching this guy who had
a huge Larger than Life personality
crazy nicknames life of the party and he
wanted to find someone like that cuz
he's like well she needs to party with
me I was like dude you are so much two
of you in a relationship would be
exhausting two of you at the same dinner
party would be exhausting I want you to
find somebody who compliments you and so
the woman he ended up with is very
different from him she's not at the
party she's at home but she's the home
base for him and he is the
energizing wild part of their
relationship and so it's not that people
have to find their opposites it's that
you shouldn't focus on just finding your
identical twin your personality twin
what are the things on the flip side of
it then that we should be looking for
that people don't typically think are
that important right so relationship
science research shows that some of
these things are really important and
that people underestimate they're
important for relationship success so
kind and loyalty they sound really
simple but you want to align yourself
with somebody who will treat you with
kindness who's compassion who shown
kindness to other people in their lives
loyalty if you're in this for the long
term don't you want a teammate who will
be there through thick and thin another
one is emotional stability that's what
the relationship research finds somebody
who's emotionally stable is just great
to be in a long-term relationship with
some of the ones that all add to it are
the ability to make hard decisions
together so life is hard what happen
happens when there's an issue with your
child or when you have an aging parent
you have to decide where to live don't
you want this to be a teammate who you
respect and admire and you can make hard
decisions together another one is the
ability to fight well and so feeling
like when we fight we can fight in a
respectful way we can take a time out
when we're flooded and we can say hey
what you just said really hurt me I need
to take a break or can we fight in a way
where we're teammates and it's us
against the world versus we're in battle
and it's you versus me and finally the
one that has become the most important
to me is this idea of what side of me
you bring out because you could be
perfect on paper but something about you
reminds me of my dad something about you
reminds me of my middle school Billy and
I don't feel good around you and so
that's honestly why finding love is so
hard because it's not an algorithm it's
really complicated in some Universe we
make perfect sense but in this universe
you annoy the out of me and so
we're not supposed to be together and so
there's a a sense of find the person who
feels like home find the person that
brings out your favorite side of
yourself because that's who you'll be in
the relationship longterm one of the
most interesting ones for me is having
the skill to fight well you didn't say
having the skill not to fight at all but
it's really about your conflict
resolution strategy together you
mentioned earlier was it Julie and John
gotman yeah they've done some work on
this absolutely yeah that's really where
I learned about all this so basically
doctors Julie and John gotman talk about
how most fights are Perpetual 69% of
fights are Perpetual what that means is
we will never come to a conclusion so
let's say I like to get to the airport
early you like to get to the airport
late the conclusion isn't you start to
get to the airport early it might be we
accept the other person's View and we go
to the airport separately so you're not
looking for a person with whom you don't
fight you're looking for a person with
whom you fight well and whose set of
problems you can deal with and this is
part of maturing is there's stories
about people who say you know I dated
this person but I broke up with them for
this problem then I dated the next
person who had the opposite situation
and they they were fine in that area but
then they had this problem it's like at
some point you have to realize you are
choosing a set of problems there's no
one with whom you don't have problems
and so my mother-in-law who's a
therapist she says to me when couples
tell me they don't fight I say do you
also not have sex because it means
you're not being real and you're not
getting to the edges you're not getting
to the conflict you're not getting to
the root of a relationship so
interesting that idea that it's just
about the problems you're accepting and
that because there is you people watch
Disney right so Disney tells us that
this is going to be this perfect person
he comes down she comes down wearing a
wonderful dress perfect we we get Happ
happily ever after we don't think as of
relationships as you choosing the
problems you want to accept and then
working on those going forward you know
absolutely yeah I call this the happily
ever after fallacy you think there's
this idea of the hard work of dating is
finding somebody and then everything
will be easy honestly finding somebody
is hard but the rest of it is really
hard too so for those romanticizes that
are obsessed with the we met and they're
like I don't want to meet on an app it's
not romantic I say to them if you're
going to be in a 50y yearlong
relationship the day you meet is
0.55% of the total relationship who
cares how you meet the Romantic part is
that you met and you built a life
together it doesn't matter that you
didn't have a romcom moment where you
were at the farmers market reaching for
the same tomato at the same time so get
over the we met story and start meeting
people and what about when we should get
married cuz I'm in the point now I've
been in a relationship for what four
years so is that a good time to pop the
question should I wait longer there's
got to be some data and research on
people that end up having successful man
marriages versus unsuccessful ones I've
also got a friend actually that he's
getting to like 37 years old now and
he's always telling me about this like
Rush he's going like Steve you don't
understand I'm 37 so he's trying to rush
people down the
and it's resulting in continual
breakdown in relationships he's now been
in I'm going to say four relationships
in the last four years in one of them he
moved the girl in in 20 days after
knowing her that didn't go well in the
second one he flew her from another
country on the second date to move in
with him and that also didn't end well
and before he flew her from far away
land to Europe to that hotel room on the
second day I said to him I was like bro
listen take it slow because in dating
and in relationships and in life the
slow way is the only way um and he
that's when we were sat on my couch at
home and he told me listen Steve I'm 37
you don't understand I haven't got that
much time and I think by rushing it he's
actually ruining the chances of even if
that person was right he's they're going
to skip past a bunch of necessary work I
agree with you I think he's focusing on
the clock and not focusing enough on the
connection and so there's no perfect
time to get married there is some
research that suggests that if You'
you've been dating for more than two
years before you get engaged that the
relationship has a greater chance of
success or if you're older than a
certain age you have a greater chance of
success all of those things are true but
what I would really focus on is this
idea of decide don't slide so there's
research that shows that there's two
ways to move through relationship
Milestones deciding is having an
intentional conversation so you might
say to your girlfriend I assume you live
together but you might have said to her
in the past let's move in together what
does moving in together mean to you and
this happened with a couple that I know
where one person said moving in means
we're testing the relationship and the
other person said moving in means we're
engaged to be engaged well they weren't
on the same page so they didn't move in
together and they waited until they were
on the same page that's deciding sliding
is just slipping through the next stage
of the relationship well my lease is up
so let's move in together and couples
that slide their way through the next
stage of the relationship end up being
in relationships that are less
intentional less happy and even have
less less sex and so I really would
encourage people to decide their way
through these relationships and through
these milestones and so for you it's
about having a conversation with your
girlfriend which I'm sure you have all
the time what do you want out of life
where do you see us living how do you
want to spend your time together Do you
want to build a family what would that
look like and having these relationship
conversations that people often don't
have because there's this thing that
happens where when you're in love with
someone you assume that you're the same
and so you think oh well I've never
talked to her about whether we're going
to live in London long term but we love
each other so much I bet she feels the
same way I do it's like no you have to
make the unconscious conscious and you
have to actually see if you're on the
same page so my advice is less focus on
how long you should date before you get
engaged or how long you should be
engaged before you get married and more
like are you having the explicit
conversations about what you want
because that's the most important part
of moving to the next stage and do you
think I know you have a role at a dating
app but do you think dating apps have
been a net positive to society I do
because it's helped so many people find
love there's this idea of a thin dating
market so if you're over 50 if you're in
the lgbtq plus Community it was really
hard to find love how did you know who
in your neighborhood was around who was
single who was interested in you and so
it's just making all these matches that
wouldn't happen otherwise and we know
from the research from Michael Rosenfeld
of Stanford that since 2017 the number
one way that couples are meeting is
onine
I say this in part because I had Whitney
wolf her on the podcast who's the
founder of Bumble and I was really
surprised actually that when I looked at
some of the feedback on the episode
specifically from men there was it open
my eyes to the way that certain men feel
about dating apps they feel and then I
spoke to Scott Galloway who told me that
it's really difficult if you're in like
the bottom percentage of men because the
top like 10% of men are having all the
sex and all the dates and there's has
kind of lost 50% of men at the bottom
that like aren't getting swiped on they
don't have all the money they're kind of
you know I totally hear that and I
absolutely work with clients who have
the same thing but when I meet with them
I feel like there's so many other things
going on that's holding them back from
Finding Love and it's not just the
technology so first of all somebody can
be on a dating app but also meeting
people in real life there's nothing
holding you back from hitting on
somebody in person joining a pickle ball
league and talking to someone and so I
feel like we make a mistake when we
think everything related to love happens
on my phone the phone is just the
modern-day Matchmaker but there's so
many other parts to it there's other
ways to meet and there's other ways to
mess it up and so a lot of the work that
I do with people you know I know all the
tips and tricks for the best hinge
profile I know what a good opening line
is I am familiar with all of the stuff
that makes people successful but that
only gets you to the first date the rest
is on you I'm curious you're curious
about what the tips and tricks for a
great hinge profile oh sure yeah I'll go
through all of them I mean we have done
tons of research on this at hinge and
our basically our philosophy is the
people who are finding success what are
they doing differently and how can we
teach other people to do that so these
are the top tricks for a great hinge
profile so first of all your profile is
telling a story who are you show us
different sides of yourself and you want
to start with a clear head shot this is
what you look like no filters no
sunglasses I should be able to see from
that first photo what you look like you
also want to have the following photos a
photo of you doing an activity that you
love a photo with you and with friends
and family show us you have a social
life and a full body picture then for
the prompts you want to have a mixture
of humor and vulnerability okay let's
just pause on this because I want to
double down on some of these so the
first photo should be a head shot and
this is and I don't mean literally a
professional headshot I mean just your
face clearly not far away no filters no
sunglasses just this is what I look like
and not like a jail head shot or
anything like that but not a mug shot
not a mug shot a head shot and the data
suggest that those people who have a
clear head shot no filters no glasses no
nothing have the most success yes all of
this is based on the hinge research for
what we find what we have found makes a
successful profile and what people are
looking for on your profile and then you
want to show that you have a diverse
sort of social life including family and
friends so at least one picture with
family and friends that shows us that
you have a social life it shows us that
there's people who you love who love you
it also kind of gives you this image of
this is what dating me would be like if
you date me like here's the kind of
people that we're going to hang out with
there's a couple ways this can go wrong
and the number one is what we call the
where's Waldo photo which is the photo
where I can't tell which one you are so
it's you know 10 white women in
bridesmaid's dress which one of these
white women are you don't make me do
work to zoom in and see who you are just
don't include that photo so it should be
very clear in the photo who you are you
also shouldn't have any photos where
it's ambiguous is this the person that
you are dating is this the person that
you wish you were dating
so make sure it's clear that there's no
romantic interest in the photo and I can
tell at a glance which one is you on
that point I've got a friend I always
say I've got a friend on this
podcast people think I'm just making
these friends up I actually am just
talking about guys St no friends he's
never he's trying to do this podcast to
make friends nobody is friends with him
you know what's funny is when I say I've
got a friend I'm literally talking about
five people and I probably said I've got
a friend like 200 wait I kind of was
thinking about this because you spoke on
a podcast about you were like I have six
friends that I text with three of them
are in sexless relationships I was like
anyone in your extended network is going
to know you're basically talking about
your friends sex relationships they know
when they're cool with it and also when
when I think it's a bit too revealing in
terms of identity I send them the
episode ahead of time and say hey I told
a story that from from us beforehand is
it okay for me to run it and every time
I talk about my girlfriend I send her
the episode and go babe okayy this is
what I said about our situation is it
okay and even like the thing I said
about that actually makes me feel better
as a listener cuz I'm like he's blowing
up all
people it's funny cuz I was about to say
to you I've got a friend and I was and
I've actually spoken about them a second
ago but um one thing that I noticed on
their profile was every single picture
that they had on their profile had them
holding a glass of alcohol and I
remember thinking it was cuz I I I I was
so bad on dating apps for the I don't
know the one month that I tried but when
I looked at this person's dating profile
when they showed me I remember they they
were telling me about the guy that had
the Box on top of his wardrob
I was like oh this is the same this is
the same I was like every single um
picture on your dating profile you're
holding alcohol and you're in a party is
that are those subtle do those subtle
cues matter yes so if I looked at her
profile I would say hey do you notice
anything in common about these and she
would say oh I guess I'm holding alcohol
in all them and I'd say exactly so it's
not that I think people are going to
think you're a lush it's that you're
only showing me one side of you right
and so I see this all the time where I
was evaluating a woman's profile in my
course and we do um live profile
feedback and she had four pictures from
a photo shoot she had done with her dog
I was like look your dog is plenty cute
but all I know about you is that on one
day you wore this dress and this is what
your dog looks like I was like you're
telling me a story but you're only
telling me one chapter and so you really
want to have variety and so your friend
can have one photo with alcohol or it's
not about the alcohol it's about show me
different sides of yourself I imagine
most of those photos were taken at night
or most of those taken photos were taken
inside at a restaurant
or brunch or a club show me different
sides of yourself and really it's a
storytelling exercise and so going back
to prompt so hinge has these prompts
which are ice breakers that you respond
to like my love language is or my
therapist would tell you or my typical
Sunday and that's a chance to tell me
about who you are and so the biggest
mistakes that people make with their
hinge prompts are onew answers which
show no effort if you're not willing to
put effort into your profile why would I
think you'll put effort into the
relationship ship they also um if
there's grammatical errors or typos
unfortunately people are looking for
reasons to say no so they won't be into
that or being all one flavor so all dad
jokes are all super Earnest you want to
have a mixture of all of that and so
it's like your dating app is your
billboard you have limited room what is
the story that you're trying to tell I
recommend that people be really specific
this is a rule in humor and it's also a
rule in dating apps so this girl that I
worked with she had on her profile
I don't know how to ride a bike and she
said that that was one of the things
that she got the most comments on cuz it
was just super specific or I want to
debate with you how bad it is to
parallel park in Boston there's a rule
in comedy that the specific is universal
the more specific you go the more people
relate to it and the same thing is true
and so the things that I look at on
people's profiles are do you have any
cliches get rid of those make it
specific do I feel like you've mentioned
anime in two of your answers I already
get that you like anime try something
else and so so really understand that
you have this limited space to tell your
story and the best way to do that is to
have different pictures and different
prompts show different sides of who you
are what about a smile does that make a
difference Smiles are good yeah I so
basically in my book I have some
research on things like looking away
from the camera looking towards the
camera and that was before I worked at
hinge and that was based on some
research that I had found that was
publicly available now that I work at
hinge that's not something that's come
up in the research I think those things
differ but people don't like selfies
they don't like gym selfies they don't
like smoking selfies so those are all
photos that you should avoid
interesting Logan we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest in the Diary of a CEO and the
question that has been left for you is
kind of fitting because it somewhat
links to the work that you
do the question
is what is great
sex
oh my gosh I always feel like I'm not
the sex pert let me think about my real
answer I think great sex is losing
yourself in the moment and being
transported to a different
place we play so many different roles in
our lives we're pretending to be this
person or that person but I feel like
when you feel safe enough when you feel
turned on enough when you have the right
erotic connection with somebody you can
actually just lose all the artifice and
be fully present and fully express
yourself and connect in this deep way
and I think many people have never had
great sex but once you've had it you
want to keep having it and so great sex
is the Deep connection that comes from
being fully present taking risks
attuning yourself to the other person
and really allowing yourself to
experience
pleasure Logan thank you thank you
because this is the the best book ever
written on this
subject it quite clearly is and I say
that because a lot of these books in
this category that talk about
relationships and love and dating they
are built on Vibes it's like gossip
Vibes and like you know kind of like I
don't know I how to explain it there's
just no sort of basis underneath the
advice that they give your book is based
on science and it even says that on the
front the surprising science that will
help you find love because you think
through psychology and the lens of
science and that is why this book is so
important and if I read this book and I
was an author thinking about writing a
book about dating I would not write a
book about dating because I think that
within it you encapsulate so many of the
fundamental um nuggets of wisdom that
anybody struggling in dating or
relationships or is looking for dates or
looking for a great relationship or love
um needs to find so I highly recommend
that everybody goes and gets this book
how to not die alone what an amazing
title and thank you so much for your
generosity generosity today um you've
helped me answer so many of my questions
that I've had and I feel like I'm going
to be quoting You Forever After reading
this book so thank you thank you for all
the compliments it means so much to me
I'm I'm honored that I get to do the
work that I do and thank you for letting
me share it with more
people as you all know this podcast is
sponsored by hure and one of my favorite
products that they've ever created is
their hu Daily Greens it actually
performed so well when we released it
that it's sold out completely and the
only thing I'm back here to say to you
guys is that it's now back in stock it
tastes amazing and it's actually got 91
vitamins and minerals and whole food
ingredients in one scoop it's nice not
to have to think about taking lots of
different pills and vitamins in the
morning I can just take this and I know
that I'm giving my body a good dose of
all the vitamins and minerals that it
needs every morning it's a lot better
tasting than having to force down some
of the other green powders I've tried
and it's really reassuring to know that
I'm looking after my body properly
unfortunately and currently this product
is only available in the US so anyone in
the USA head to hu.com to get it before
it runs out again but anyone that's not
in the US and wants it to to come to
their country please send me a DM a
direct message and I'll speak to the
team at hu in our board meetings and
I'll let them know that you want it in
your
[Music]
country
oh